README.md, before:

FASM 2 BELs
-----------

fasm2bels is a tool designed to take a FASM file into Vivado.

It does this by generating a file describing the BEL connections (techmapped
Verilog) and TCL commands for Vivado which lock the BEL placements.

This makes it possible to perform simulation and analysis of a FASM file inside
Vivado.

In the absence of bugs, it is expected that after consuming the BEL
connections and TCL constraints Vivado will produce a bitstream identical to
the bitstream the FASM file would generate.

Installing
----------
After cloning this repo:
  - `make env` - required python >=3.7 - may have to upgrade and then change Makefile to use new version (same for Invoking below)
    - To get python3.7 on Ubuntu 16.04 I had to do:
      - sudo apt update
      - sudo apt install software-properties-common
      - sudo add-apt-repository ppa:deadsnakes/ppa
      - sudo apt update
      - sudo apt install python3.7
    - Then, had to modify the Makefile to use python3.7 instead of python3
 - `make build`
 - `make test-py` - will run a few tests (6), takes a few minutes

Invoking
--------

`python3 -mfasm2bels <options> <verilog> <tcl>`

Required arguments are:
 - `--connection_database` - Path to connection database for part
 - `--db_root` - Path to prjxray database for part
 - `--part` - FPGA part
 - `--fasm_file` - Path to FASM file to process
 - verilog - Path to verilog file to write
 - tcl - Path to TCL file to write

The first time you run it you will not have a connection database for the part.  Provide a name for this parameter such as `./basys3.db` and the program will generate the database the first time you run.  On subsequent runs you can then specify that filename and avoid re-building the database each time.

Here is an example run:
```
python3.7 -mfasm2bels --connection_database mydb \
                      --db_root ~/prjxray/database/artix7 \
                      --part xc7a35tcpg236-1 \
                      --fasm_file cnt.fasm \
                      cnt.v cnt.tcl
```

Once the verilog and TCL is generated, it should be importable to Vivado with
a script roughly like:

```
create_project -force -part {part} design design

read_verilog {bit_v}
synth_design -top {top}
source {bit_tcl}
set_property IS_ENABLED 0 [get_drc_checks {{LUTLP-1}}]
place_design
route_design
```

Timing constraints should be provided as needed, along with other property
modifications as needed for the design.  These properties are not embedded in
the bitstream, so must be supplied external.

Examples:
 - `set_property CFGBVS VCCO [current_design]`
 - `set_property CONFIG_VOLTAGE 3.3 [current_design]`

BELs / Sites supported
----------------------

- SLICEL (all)
- SLICEM (all)
- RAMB18/RAMB36 (BRAM only, no FIFO support)
- IOB (limited IOSTANDARDs)
- IOI
    - IDELAY
    - IDDR/ISERDES
    - ODDR/OSERDES
- CLK\_HROW\_\*
- CLK\_BUFG\_\*
- PLLs
- PSS

Future work
-----------
 - MMCMs
 - BUFR/BUFMR and other clock buffers
 - DSP

Commit message:

Updated README that the fasm2bels bootcamp page will link to
I tried using this same exact description on the main fasm2bels repo, but since RapidWright and capnproto-java are made in the CI test, they had me modify those instructions. Since those needing to use fasm2bels will not have those made with CI tests, they will need copies of those repos on their own machine. Hence, the longer more detailed instructions here on the BYU fork.

README.md, after:

FASM 2 BELs
-----------

fasm2bels is a tool designed to take a FASM file into Vivado.

It does this by generating a file describing the BEL connections (techmapped
Verilog) and TCL commands for Vivado which lock the BEL placements.

This makes it possible to perform simulation and analysis of a FASM file inside
Vivado.

In the absence of bugs, it is expected that after consuming the BEL
connections and TCL constraints Vivado will produce a bitstream identical to
the bitstream the FASM file would generate.

Installing
----------

Before cloning this repo, the RapidWright and capnproto-java repos must be installed first.

Follow the instructions to install RapidWright [here](https://github.com/Xilinx/RapidWright) and clone capnproto-java [here](https://github.com/capnproto/capnproto-java).

After RapidWright and capnproto-java are installed, clone this repo and run the following commands:
  - `make env`: For this to be successful, python3.7 or above is required - you may have to upgrade and then change the Makefile to use the new version (same for Invoking below)
    - To get python3.7 on Ubuntu 16.04 (or above) do the following:
      - sudo apt update
      - sudo apt install software-properties-common
      - sudo add-apt-repository ppa:deadsnakes/ppa
      - sudo apt update
      - sudo apt install python3.7
    - Then, modify the Makefile to use python3.7 instead of python3.
 - `make build`
 - `make test-py` - Before running, go into `.github/workflows/test.sh` and change the directory path from $GITHUB_WORKSPACE to your directory path for CAPN_PATH and INTERCHANGE_SCHEMA_PATH (fpga-interchange-schema is inside `RapidWright/interchange`). It should look something like this when completed:

`export CAPNP_PATH="/home/username/capnproto-java/compiler/src/main/schema/"`
`export INTERCHANGE_SCHEMA_PATH="/home/username/RapidWright/interchange/fpga-interchange-schema/interchange"`

Source the `test.sh` from the main fasm2bels directory (`source .github/workflows/test.sh`) and `make test-py` will run automatically. It takes a few minutes to run all the tests (22).

 An `OK` should appear at the bottom of the terminal run if successful.

Invoking
--------

`python3 -mfasm2bels <options> <verilog> <tcl>`

Required arguments are:
 - `--connection_database` - Path to connection database for part
 - `--db_root` - Path to prjxray database for part
 - `--part` - FPGA part
 - `--fasm_file` - Path to FASM file to process
 - verilog - Path to verilog file to write
 - tcl - Path to TCL file to write

The first time you run it you will not have a connection database for the part.  Provide a name for this parameter such as `./basys3.db` and the program will generate the database the first time you run.  On subsequent runs you can then specify that filename and avoid re-building the database each time.

Here is an example run:
```
python3.7 -mfasm2bels --connection_database mydb \
                      --db_root ~/prjxray/database/artix7 \
                      --part xc7a35tcpg236-1 \
                      --fasm_file cnt.fasm \
                      cnt.v cnt.tcl
```

Once the verilog and TCL is generated, it should be importable to Vivado with
a script roughly like:

```
create_project -force -part {part} design design

read_verilog {bit_v}
synth_design -top {top}
source {bit_tcl}
set_property IS_ENABLED 0 [get_drc_checks {{LUTLP-1}}]
place_design
route_design
```

Timing constraints should be provided as needed, along with other property
modifications as needed for the design.  These properties are not embedded in
the bitstream, so must be supplied external.

Examples:
 - `set_property CFGBVS VCCO [current_design]`
 - `set_property CONFIG_VOLTAGE 3.3 [current_design]`

BELs / Sites supported
----------------------

- SLICEL (all)
- SLICEM (all)
- RAMB18/RAMB36 (BRAM only, no FIFO support)
- IOB (limited IOSTANDARDs)
- IOI
    - IDELAY
    - IDDR/ISERDES
    - ODDR/OSERDES
- CLK\_HROW\_\*
- CLK\_BUFG\_\*
- PLLs
- PSS

Future work
-----------
 - MMCMs
 - BUFR/BUFMR and other clock buffers
 - DSP
